\-\-- Setting up the Game \-\--

To play the game you need: <br>
-\> Two Players <br>
-\> Two decks of exactly 40 cards. No more than 4 copies of a single card in the deck. <br>
-\> A coin <br>
-\> \[Optional\] A holodeck on the TGC setting <br>

Flip the coin to decide who goes first, then keep the coin next to the
other player, flipped with heads up. Both players start with 20
Healthstards (this game\'s HP), with the goal of reducing the
opponent\'s Healthshards to 0. At the start of each game each player
draws 5 cards then mulligans. Each player can, up to 3 times, discard a
card face-down then draw 1. These discarded cards then get shuffled back
into the deck.

IMPORTANT: When between-rounds persistency for TGC cards get added a new
deckbuilding rule will be added: You can only have 3 card subtypes on
your deck. Until persistency gets added (or for draft play) this rule
can and should be ignored.

\-\-\-\-\-\-- Game Basics \-\-\-\-\--

At the start of every turn you draw 1 card.

At the start of your first turn you gain 1 plasma. At the start of your
second you gain 2 plasma, of our third 3 plasma, etc. Plasma is used to
play cards, being spent as you play them. Plasma does carry over from
your turn into your opponent\'s turn but any unspent plasma is lost by
the beginning of your turn. If you went second you start with the coin,
which is put at the table with heads facing up. Once per game you may
flip the coin from heads to tails to gain +1 plasma that turn.

Your turn is divided into two main phases the Play Phase and the Battle
Phase.

During the Play Phase you may play cards, activate effects and etc. Once
you\'re finished with it you move to the Battle Phase. During the Battle
Phase you use your creature cards to attack the opponents\' creatures on
their side of the field. Once you finished the Battle Phase you cannot
go back to your Play Phase - once you start the Battle Phase you can no
longer play new cards or activate monster effects until the rest of the
turn, with the exception of Instant cards. Always remember to do
everything you want to do before starting the Battle Phase!

\-\-\-\-- Card Types \-\-\-\-\--

There are 5 types of cards in the game: Creature, Equipment, Event,
Instant and Battlefield.

Creature cards stay on the field when you play them. They have a power
(which is how much damage they do), a resolve (which is how much damage
they can take before being destroyed) and effect text. You can use them
for combat and winning the game!

Equipment cards can be equipped to your Creature cards, letting you buff
them with new powers and better stats. When you use it, put it
underneath the Creature card you want to equip it to.

Event cards have an effect that applies when they are played. They then
go to the discard pile after being played.

Instant cards are similar to Events however can be played at any time -
they can be played on the Play Phase but also the Battle Phase, and even
on the opponent\'s turn! The main rules of it are that you cannot use an
Instant card after the opponent activates a card but before it goes in
effect - if the opponent plays a card that deals 3 damage to one of your
cards for example you cannot \"respond\" with an Instant to heal it
before it gets destroyed.

Battlefield are cards that stay on the field after being played but are
not creatures. Each player can only have one Battlefield card on their
field at once.

\-\-\-\-- Card Combat \-\-\-\--

You can only attack with untapped units. In the Battle Phase you can
perform two types of attacks: direct attacks and enemy attacks.

When you declare a direct attack the opponent can either choose to let
it go through and take damage equal to the power of the attacking card
or block it. When they block it they choose one of their untapped units
and they fight. If the opponent has no untapped units then they can\'t
block.

You can also make your creatures to attack one of the opponent\'s
creatures. In that case you choose which of the enemy\'s units becomes
the blocker.

When two creatures battle they both take damage equal to the other
creature\'s power. This can mean that both creatures get destroyed in an
attack. After an attack, every creature gets tapped, both the attacker
and the defender.
